<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN"
          "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
  <head>
    <title>scan9660</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="amoe.css" type="text/css"/>
  </head>
  <body>
    <h1>scan9660</h1>

    <p>Do you have a very old data CD, with extremely valuable
    information on it that has accidentally been very badly damaged?
    Due to extreme negligence, do you also have no other backups of
    this information?  In addition, is the very start of the disc
    damaged, meaning the filesystem can't even be mounted?  Is the
    filesystem ISO9660?  Then congratulations, this is the tool for you!</p>

    <p>scan9660 uses a heuristic search to look for directory records
    on ISO9660 images.  It then extracts any available information
    from the disk and loosely recreates the file structure on your
    local disk.  It is best used in combination with
    <a href="http://www.gnu.org/software/ddrescue/ddrescue.html">ddrescue</a>
    in order to read as much of the relevant image as possible.</p>

    <p>scan9660 is written
    in <a href="http://www.sisc-scheme.org/">SISC</a> Scheme.  SISC
    users can run it with this command line:</p>

    <blockquote><kbd>sisc -c main
    main.scm <var>args</var></kbd></blockquote>

    <p>Before resorting to using scan9660, make sure you use
    ddrescue.  The image may be mountable through normal means on the
    loopback device.  To be sure you've retrieved as much of the image
    as possible, repeatedly run ddrescue with the <kbd>-r 1</kbd>
    option, examining the error count each time.  When the error count
    doesn't change anymore, the maximum amount of data has been
    retrieved from the CD.  See also my
    script <code>iterative_rescue.sh</code>, which automates this
    process.</p>
  </body>
</html>
